This is to sum up is a table
doing the comparison between the data lake versus the data warehouse.
In data warehouse we deal with tabular formats,
in data lake we deal with all formats.
In the data warehouse we have only high value data,
in the data lake we have high value,
medium value, and actually to be discovered value.
So we can put it and see whether this data is valuable or not.
Then we have for the ingestion mode,
the ETL extract transform load versus ELT extract load, and then transform.
The data model in the warehouse is very well defined.
We have the star and the snowflake schemas with conformed dimensions or with data-marts,
the Inmon model, the Kimball model,
the Hybrid model and at the end of the day,
when we present things to the users,
we pre-aggregate those OLAP cubes,
whether OR OLAP, or M OLAP, and so forth.
In the data lake, we can still serve the same thing.
No one prevents us from doing star and snowflakes and
OLAP and and serve them using the current big data tools.
However, there are other ad-hoc representations.
For machine learning, you might want to express things differently in different formats.
The schema is known beforehand in the data warehouse.
It's on-the-fly at the time of analysis schema-on-read in the data lake.
The data warehouse you have
the expensive MPP databases and
with expensive hardware and connectivity and discs and so forth.
On data lake you have commodity hardware with parallelism asked
first principle and also with storage and data in the same place.
For the data warehouse that ticket quality,
you have high-quality with lots
of efforts for consistency and clear rules of accessibility.
While the data warehouse puts some rules also for the ability
to change which is the point of dimensions that
you can actually modify the dimensions and so on,
the limits of the change are within the
tabular and the whole mental model of the star schema and the dimensions.
In the data lake, no. I mean it's mixed.
Some are a tabular some are in row format
and some has been curated
and became of high-quality while other remains still unattended.
In the warehouse, you have your business analysts as the main customer or the main user.
In data lake, you have the data scientists,
the business analyst and new roles like the ML engineers
who want to know how to get the data
the best way for the machine running problems for instance.
Finally, in the data warehouse,
you have the reports and the business intelligence visualizations,
while in the data lake you still have the reports,
the business intelligent visualizations,
but you have also
the new advanced analytics like ML graphs and data exploration in general.
It's perhaps due to say where the name came from.
There is this famous analogy about the data lake.
The data warehouse is like a producer of water where you go
and you're handed bottled water in a particular size and shape of the Bottle.
So it has to be this way,
which is actually clean,
it's distilled, it's beautiful and with high-quality and we know that.
In contrast, a data lake is like a lake,
and a lake usually is formed by many streams coming from the mountains flowing into it.
But the idea is all the water is there,
and it's up to everyone to go and see how he wants to get water out of this.
Thus the name of actually the data lake.